Here are my third session notes:

Session 3 notes:

What is git?
Git is a version control system.We use it as a central place to add and view our individual notes and projects. Imagine you are writing an essay for your school project which may take a month. You have been editing this text document everyday. After editing for 10 days you thought, the one written 3 days back story is good and don't want any changes you have done for the last 3 days. What you might have done is take a backup of this document everyday like 1.txt, 2.txt, 3.txt etc., and now if you want to go back all you need is copy 7.txt and make as 10.txt and start working on it ( now you have lost 8, 9 and 10th day changes which you want anyway). This works for one file by one person. Imagine a team of 3 working on this text document and writing independently 3 different sections of it and want to combine now and then and make final copy before final submit. All these things will be made easy with any version control system like git, where multiple persons can work on the same text document , combine them, view what changes anybody has done and lot more.
How to get your repository to your local machine
A repository is collection of files ( can contain folders)
go to github.com and login and go to repository
for example a repository basicjava for my account will be https://github.com/sairamaj/basicjava.git (see the pattern here)
https
github.com
account name ( here sairamaj is my account)
repository name (basicjava)
.git

Adding new files:
If you want to add, say session 3 notes into your github repository your would first; 
in notepad type your own notes
use File->Save option to save
Quit the notepad
now type git status this command will show any changes done in red color indicating some changes you have done.
type git add * to add these files to your local git (note: you are files on local machine still)
next type git status again to see all the files are shown in green.
type git commit -m "some comment" This will put in to local git ( again your files are still in on your machine)
type git push origin master to finally push these changes to your github account.
At this time you can go to your github account and see whether your newly added files existing there.
Modifying the files:
The procedure is same except instead of creating new file you will be modifying.
open command prompt
cd \
cd gitlearn\basicjava
notepad session3.txt
modify with new notes
File->Save
quit notepad
git status
git add *
git commit -m "comment"
git push origin master
Deleting the files:
use del command ( or use file explorer)
repeat the above git commands

Summary:


command
description
git status
shows the status of any additions/modifications/deletions
git add *
adds the files to local
git commit -m"some comment'
commits to local repository
git push origin master
finally they are in your github account
